{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red239\green143\blue179;\red134\green205\blue77;\red26\green26\blue26;
\red254\green73\blue64;\red230\green87\blue141;\red253\green154\blue0;\red102\green177\blue50;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12480\viewh13480\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 Toth Meeting - April 1\cb1 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 - why remove lots of the loess values?\
- transcriptome versus genome? can reexamine genome. her colleague has genome.\
\
- one with every sample\
- group 12 and 12 (just one factor, two levels now). just like soybean design (DU+DR vs )\
\
- ask about POS ratio of knowledge-based questions and research\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \cb2 Cook Meeting - April 5
\b0 \cb1 \
- make sure main directory does \
- see if rm(list=ls()) removes all things?\
.Rhist .Rprof .R directory // check inside of these\
	- make files in .R directory\
- main directory (home directory) and working directory\
	- .Rproj.user\
- Send Karsen beforehand\
\
- Significance.pdf (Figure 3 and 4)\
	- mean-variance and BCV plot\
	- both tell us information about the homogeneity of variance\
	- Figure 4: We should expect that as counts increase, coefficient of variance increases, but we see that as count increases, coefficient of variance decreases\
\
- If there are many genes not doing much, we should ignore them. We can rerun under different cut-offs and see how it affects DEGs\
- Figure 6 boxplot shows that NU.3, NU.4, F.2, and F.6 have no large values. Also, there are many small read counts, so we should considering changing the threshold from 6 (smallest rep) to 15.\
\
- We should create scatterplot and PCP to see how one bad sample differs from the rest of its replicates. For instance, how does F.2 differ from other Fs? We can do this to diagnose by certain bad samples look diff than the rest in MDS plot. We can also do this as further justification for removing these bad samples.\
- We should expect that if all NUs are replicates, then all lines will be straight lines in PCP, and scatterplot should show thin line on x=y line.\
\
- MDS plot is a rough overview. But, still, MDS shows that nutrition might be of better quality (or more biologically important) than drumming.\
\
- 
\b \cb3 Why does the kmeans clustering work so much better on soybean than wasp?\
	- Plants are clones, but wasps are not clones. So, they have more variability.\
	- Plants are more controlled, especially over genotypes.
\b0 \cb1 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 To Do:\ulnone \
- For now, just work with the 12 samples of DR and DU. Do the filtering and normalization on DR and DU, and keep the top 100 pairwise genes from edgeR.\
- We can try RUVseq normalization method (R package). Ask Dr. Toth for ~20 genes with known quantities (not change much from one treatment to another, not care if workers, queens, drumming, nutrition). These genes are robust. This is the best normalization method.\
- We can use DR and DU to understand the signal:noise in the data\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \cb2 Attempt to fix sub-architecture R is not installed
\b0 \cb1 \
\
- rm(list = ls(all.names = TRUE))\
- detach()\
- rm /Library/Frameworks/R.framework/Versions/*\
- reinstalleld R\
- reinstalled RStudio\
Fixed it!\
\

\b \cb2 Cook Meeting - April 12\cb1 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 - ishowyou // freeware, inside latex package to use\
- Ask Dr. Toth: Are the transcripts overlapping? As long as they\'92re unique, they should not be changing\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \cb2 Toth Meeting - April 19
\b0 \cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs26 \cf4 We have not looked into this with transcriptome data. \'a0However, there are a few genes we use as controls for PCR experiments that are "supposed" to be housekeeping genes that should not change much in their expression. \'a0We don't have 20 of them, but a handful. \'a0These include 
\b actin, rp49, S8
\b0 , and a few others. \'a0You can find reference to these "control genes" and hopefully their primer sequences in some of the attached papers from other Polistes species, which could be blasted against the Pfus dataset to find homologs. \'a0Let me know if you would like to talk this over more.\
\
RP49 (1-9)\
Rsp8 (2-3)\
PmRSP8 (2-4)\
\

\b - transcripts should not overlap (assembly could erroneously overlap them)
\b0 \
- could be microoverlap (threshold to be contiguous) (ACT is too common) (could be tiny overlaps over some of the contigs/transcripts) (for tmost part, they represent diff part of the genome. they are unique transcripts. They may correspond to the same gene, but they should not have any meaningful overlap in them) (some correspond to the same genes, so that type of independence is not there. some transcripts may map to same gene)\
\
1) pre-existing knowledge of house-keeping genes (Dr. Toth doesn\'92t believe in housekeeping genes) (more useful if don\'92t have transcriptome)\
2) stdev within group, overall stdev, mean difference. internal control genes.\
3) could have spike-in\
\
non-transcriptome data, maybe only have limited genes you have sequenced. here, we have whole genome at our disposal. So, we don\'92t need to make any assumptions. We can identify that most consistent genes. \
\
- blast primer to model organism (honey bee)\
- blast primers against transcriptome dataset (is in NCBI, and can blast against it in NCBI)\
- wiki \'97> protoocols \'97> on the computer \'97> how to use NCB blast against public transcriptomes\
- type in actin and honey bee \'97> pick an actin (long 100s or 1000s bases), plot that into blast, and pull up homologous seq in p.fusc. look at transcript ids in rna-seq dataset and see if highly stable or not\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 Cook Meeting - April 19
\f1\b0\fs26 \cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf4 \

\b - ask Dr. Cook about balance of 
\b0 \cf0 \strike \strikec0 general knowledge
\b \cf4 \strike0\striked0  versus \cb5 research project\cb1 \
- ask Dr. Cook (What will my chapters be? Results from soybean as proof and data from wasp. Both wasp and SB in tool. is one in chapter 2 and one in chapter 3)\
- clarify about thesis chapter (RNA-sequencing data chapter)
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
To Do:\
1) fig 8 (normalization striations). try using 
\b \cb3 betweenLaneNormalization (try replacing, but should not matter - edgeR adjust each sample separately, between lane works across samples)
\b0 \cb1 ? EDASeq package.\
2) rerun analysis with DU and DR labels permuted (check permutation) (or make a couple up myself)\
3) do without RUVseq, and then do with RUVseq // ideally results are robust so do not change with this normalization. Dr. Toth sent me one more housekeeping paper from Jandt.\
4) It might be a bug in plotly (send Karsen some code)\
\
DU_DR_Filter_BtwnLane.csv\
5\
DU_DR_Filter_Loess_BtwnLane.csv\
0\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \cb6 DU_DR_NoFilter_BtwnLane.csv\cb1 \
\cb6 17\cb1 \
\cb6 // run permutations on this method
\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 DU_DR_Filter_CalcNorm.csv\
3
\b0 \
DU_DR_Filter_Loess_CalcNorm.csv\
0\
DU_DR_NoFilter_CalcNorm.csv\
17\
\
Perm1\
85120\
101844\
86302\
39871\
33361\
101598\
79723\
87215\
34910\
\
countTable[which(rownames(countTable) %in% c(85120, 10184, 86302, 39871, 33361, 101598, 79723, 87215, 34910)),c(1:12)]\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \cb2 Cook Meeting - April 26
\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
methods and using RNASeq of example data (not biological implications)\
RNASeq visualization methods paper (1 chapter)\
\
Five main things we will work on:\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \cb7 1)\cb1  \cb3 better PCP
\b0 \cb1 , we need to have PCP is clear. We need to check the initial normalization process. Not happy with what is available right now. Side-by-side box plots are made very often; they are ugly, and don\'92t show the connections from one sample to the other. So, they hide potential problems that could still be in the data after we have normalized. Most norms are working on single sample at a time, and boxplots might make everything look pretty good. but when see crossing in replicates in PCP, that reveals a problem with the normalization. With this large amount of data, need better pcp.\
\
problems now is that there are too much data and looks like spaghetti. so we need a way to display the key pieces of information and do that quickly, rather than wait 5 minutes for plot to actually draw it.\
\
if the norm works well, intra reps should be flat. and should only have crossing between treatments.\
\
we want PCP to check the quality of the data, which means maybe we only want to look at one set of replicates first. but if draw lines for each gene, it is too slow to draw. \
\
ggparcoord in the GGally package (too slow) (and visualization, because too many lines also) issues are speed and number of genes (need to penetrate the blob when have so many lines)\
\

\b \cb7 2)\cb1  
\b0 second thing is need 
\b \cb8 pairwise scatterplots
\b0 \cb1 . need to be able to plot replicates against each other. if perfect world, should have x=y relationship. if don\'92t have that, it is quality problem with data. want to generate scatterplot matrices. but same issues. too much data (big blob) and speed is too slow. All we see are a few points on the perimeter, so it is misleading.\
\
we would want guidelines. reps should be more similar to each other than across treatments. should be able to make recommendations/guidelines about whether it is too variable to trust that replications are appropriate. work on scatterplot matrix to adapt to large amount of data.\
\

\b \cb7 3)\cb1  
\b0 third thing is want to be able to see replicates (scatterplot of treatment 1 versus treatment 2) and connect replicates (
\b \cb8 porcupine plots
\b0 \cb1 , but they only work for 2 reps) (but have that kind of display for >2 reps. what is variability in replicate versus variability across treatments)\
\

\b \cb7 4)\cb1  
\b0 fourth thing is want 
\b \cb8 interaction plots that allow us to easily draw single gene plots of top candidates
\b0 \cb1 .\
\

\b \cb7 5)\cb1  
\b0 fifth thing is 
\b \cb8 permutation testing
\b0 \cb1 . that should be a part of this package. we want to say what this might look like if we permuted (get confidence bands on what we might see if it is just random noise as the difference). want to build confidence bands on the visualization based on the permutation ideas.\
\
ggparcoord function out of ggally. have ggparcoord as my own function in my own package. make my own version.\
ggscatmat function can also be extracted from ggally. \
it will be general enough to work on own package outside of ggally.\
\
change citation\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360
\cf0 North Dakota State University and American Mathematical Society. The Mathematics Genealogy Project. 2010. Archived Web Site. Retrieved from the Library of Congress, https://www.loc.gov/item/lcwa00095581. (Accessed April 26, 2016.) // put the date you got the e-mail ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.loc.gov/item/lcwa00095581/"}}{\fldrslt https://www.loc.gov/item/lcwa00095581/}})\
\
To Do:\
- triplets - generate display with 3 plots (one is actual data, other two are perm1, perm2). for the most sig genes\
- do top 20 genes as triplets. randomize the location of the actual data amongst the other two. (so don\'92t know which one is permuted and which one is not permuted)\
- this is line-ups (triangle-test, b/c only three), and so can use the package (
\b \cb8 nullabor
\b0 \cb1 ). have the three along a row. top gene under permuted design versus real data.\
- Have a draft of my proposal by the end of next week. most recent proposals from students on Dropbox. Must write overview chapter saying what the scope of my thesis is. ggenealogy chapter. need a few more chapters with general outlines. rough timeline for completing.\
\
- 
\b \cb3 rerun with different samples (in the long run). remove a sample we are suspicious about and rerun everything, so make code flexible. So can run functions on selections of the samples.
\b0 \cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 gitX\
gitx.frim.nl\
}